The President:
This week, I signed into law
a Wall Street reform bill that
will protect consumers and
our entire economy from the
recklessness and
irresponsibility that led to the
worst recession in our lifetime.
It's reform that will help put a
stop to the abusive practices of
mortgage lenders and
credit card companies.
It'll end taxpayer bailouts
of Wall Street firms.
And it will finally bring the
shadowy deals that caused the
financial crisis into
the light of day.
Wall Street reform is a key
pillar of an overall economic
plan we've put in place to dig
ourselves out of this recession
and build an economy
for the long run --
an economy that makes America
more competitive and our
middle-class more secure.
It's a plan based on the Main
Street values of hard work and
responsibility -- and one that demands new accountability from
Wall Street to Washington.
Instead of giving tax breaks
to corporations that ship jobs
overseas, we want to give tax
breaks to small business owners
who are creating jobs
right here in America.
Already, we've given small
businesses eight new tax cuts,
and have expanded lending to more than 60,000 small business owners.
We're also investing
in a homegrown,
clean energy industry -- because I don't want to see new solar
panels and wind turbines and electric cars manufactured in
some other country.
I want to see them made in
America, by American workers.
So far, we've provided new
tax credits, loan guarantees,
and investments that will lead to more than 800,000 clean
energy jobs by 2012.
And throughout America,
communities are being rebuilt by
people working in hundreds of
thousands of new private sector
jobs repairing our roads,
and bridges, and railways.
Our economic plan is also
aimed at strengthening the
middle-class.
That's why we've cut taxes
for 95% of working families.
That's why we've offered tax
credits that have made college
more affordable for
millions of students,
and why we're making a new
commitment to our community colleges.
And that's why we passed health
insurance reform that will stop
insurance companies from
dropping or denying coverage
based on an illness or
pre-existing condition.
This is our economic plan -- smart investments in America's
small businesses, America's clean energy industry,
and America's middle-class.
Now, I can't tell you that this
plan will bring back all the
jobs we've lost and restore
our economy to full strength overnight.
The truth is, it took nearly
a decade of failed economic
policies to create this mess,
and it will take years to fully
repair the damage.
But I'm confident that we are
finally headed in the right direction.
We are moving forward.
And what we can't afford right
now is to go back to the same
ideas that created this
mess in the first place.
Unfortunately, those are the
ideas we keep hearing from our
friends in the other party.
This week, the Republican leader
in the House of Representatives
offered his plan to create jobs.
It's a plan that's surprisingly
short, and sadly familiar.
First, he would repeal
health insurance reform,
which would take away tax
credits from millions of small
business owners, and take us
back to the days when insurance
companies had free rein to drop
coverage and jack up premiums.
Second, he would say no to new
investments in clean energy,
after his party already voted
against the clean energy tax
credits and loans that are
creating thousands of new jobs
and hundreds of new businesses.
And third, even though his party
voted against tax cuts for
middle-class families, he would
permanently keep in place the
tax cuts for the very
wealthiest Americans --
the same tax cuts that have
added hundreds of billions to our debt.
These aren't new ideas.
They're the same policies that
led us into this recession.
They won't create jobs;
they will kill them.
They won't reduce our deficit; they will add $1 trillion to our deficit.
They will take us backward at
a time when we need to keep
America moving forward.
I know times are tough.
I know that the progress we've
made isn't good enough for the
millions of Americans who are
still out of work or struggling
to pay the bills.
But I also know the
character of this nation.
I know that in times of great
challenge and difficulty,
we don't fear the future
-- we shape the future.
We harness the skills and
ingenuity of the most dynamic
country on Earth to
reach a better day.
We do it with optimism, and
we do it with confidence.
That's the spirit
we need right now,
and that's the future I
know we can build together.
Thanks.